On the bed making, when you were a fish, you had to
make somebody else's bed on a regular basis? No,
normally not. What about when you were an
upperclassman? Did you have a fish make your bed?
No, we usually made our own. I was curious, some of
the people... You'd get some fish in there to help
us clean up. Some of the people indicated that when
they were a fish, they had to make the bed. Well,
they did. Some of those boys did. I don't think we
ever did bother about it a great deal.
Did you have any favorite instructors while you
were there? Oh, yeah, we had some nice people. We
had a
lot of them that I don't remember.
A fellow named Jim, Slim Jim Hayden, I think, was a
biology professor. Everybody liked him. Yes,
Sabine Paul. Everybody liked him. And old Duke
Thornton was a chemical department, chemistry
department prof. Everybody liked old Duke. He's
still living in College Station. You don't mean
it. Is that right? Yeah. My associate interviewed
him a couple weeks ago. Is that right? Yeah, I knew
him well. And pretty smart cookie, too, that
chemistry. And animal husbandry department,
there was a fellow named Burke, was a nice fellow.
Bell, who later went, was hard-boiled, later went
to Kansas. Made an outstanding name for himself in
Kansas. Animal husbandry department, a fellow
named Templeton. All under my own brother, see,
who was head of the department at that time, so.
And, uh... The other,
I've forgotten. Did you ever have any classes
under Dr. Mark Francis? Oh, yeah. Dr. Francis was
something else. You bet. No, thank you. And
Marsteller, I had a class under Dr. Francis.
Marsteller, well, yeah. They were exceptional
men, no doubt about it. I had gathered from what
people told me that Dr. Francis was really
something else. Oh, he was. He was a good
storyteller. Oh, he was a good storyteller, and he
was smart. Morstella was a fine man. He was very
capable. Yeah, I enjoyed my vet work. I enjoyed my
vet classes.
I've forgotten, Lord, who all was it. You know, you
forget those things of who the men were.
I believe when you first went there, Milner was
president. He resigned and Bazell came in. Well,
Perea was made president pro tem. Perea was acting
pro tem for a while. That's right. They saw the best
part of Catfish Miller. How'd he get the name
Catfish? God, I don't know. He had it when you got
there. Yeah. And then Brazell came there.
Because Brazell had a hard time
changing his thinking from CIA down to A&M
College. They made it pretty rough on him. The
cadets did, you mean? You bet. They made it pretty
hard on him. I can remember one instance that he was
walking down the walk in front of Milner Hall and
all of a sudden this water come tumbling down.
Wasn't right, but it was funny.
Did they come to respect him though before the...
Oh yeah, Milner was a, he was a good good educator. I
mean, Brazell was a good educator. Yes, he did a lot
of A&M College. Had a nice family. Yeah, Brazell
was all right. He just had a hard time fitting in
down there because that dang school at that time
was a little bit rough and ready, you know. A little
bit different from girls' school. What about the
commandant? You mentioned that Levi G. Brown is
commandant. Well, he was replaced by a fellow
named James R. Hill. And
he wasn't as tough. Hill was a nice fella, but he
wasn't hard-boiled as old Levi Brown. Levi Brown
came out as, what, 7th Cavalry or 5th Cavalry? He
was tough as a boot. But he made things run. Yeah.
like they ought to be run, see. And he had some good
sergeants under him there, see. They had some Army
sergeants, retired Army sergeants there. There
was old Sergeant Kenyon, Sergeant Smart,
Sergeant Highland. And those boys all respected
those boys. They got along. They knew people, see.
Now what did the sergeants do? Did they teach
military tactics of that nature? Well, they
worked in the Commandant's office. and took care
of a lot of the detail. And they'd make a periodical
inspection of those dormitories and were around
the campus all the time. Some fine men, real fine.
All three of those fellows, everybody loved them
and highly respected.
When Hill came there, Hill was, I don't, I believe
he was a lieutenant in the Army when they sent him
in. He could have, not over a first, could have been
second lieutenant. But old Levi G. Brown, he was
some man, he was something else. You'd have to
respect Levi Brown, although he was tough as a
boot. The boys respected him. He covered all the
ground he stood on. And although he put me in the
bugle corps, I never did dislike him first. It was a
lot of fun. Well, that didn't really hurt you going
in the biblical court. No, it didn't hurt me. You
didn't have to learn how to
play. I didn't have to carry that gun. Did the
cadets who were officers in the Corps have any
special privileges as opposed to other cadets
now? Earlier you said something about the senior
privates could skip out on drills and things like
that. Oh, well, the senior private had more fun
than anybody because he didn't have to go to any
formation. Of course, the senior officers had
privileges that nobody else had in a way that they
could get off and they could get furloughs and they
could go to town and they could stay out after taps
and those kind of things. Other than that, I was not
aware of it because I was the buck private and I knew
it. There
wasn't much I could do about it.
For a long time, a lot of the students who have gone
to Texas A&M have had jobs of one sort or another.
Did you have a job of any kind? No, I didn't. No, I was
very fortunate that I didn't have to work my way
through school. Now, Ron Stangle did work his way
through school under my brother. First time I ever
saw Ron Stangle, he was riding a 2,200-pound
purchasing stallion. And, of course, short legs,
and his legs sticking right straight out. I'll
never forget. I've told it on him. It'll take many
years later.
Let's see. You graduated then in 16. Skip over a
couple of years up to the time of the First World
War. Did you have any role in that? No, I did not. I
was in the cattle business, unfortunately, about
spring of 1917. Really in 1917, just in time to get
in the drought and was tied up with a bunch of cattle
and impossible for me to go at that time. Later on I
did go down to San Antonio and volunteered for the
regular army. They sent me to Houston for
examination and had us all build a whole bunch of us
out at Rice Institute for physical. We were all
built to go up to Louisville, Kentucky for
artillery camp. The war was over before we ever got
transferred up there. I went out to Fort Sam
Houston, went to San Antonio and volunteered for
regular Army. And the old colonel out there said,
well, Mr. Burns, if you had an education, I told
him, yeah, four years in A&M College. He said, you
mean tell me you came out here to volunteer as a bug
driver? I said, I'd just as soon be private as a
colonel. The way it was to me. He said, well, I'm not
going to take you. He said, I do want you to go over to
Houston. I'm going to send you over to Houston. I
want you to go over there and take an examination
for artillery. So that's what I did. One of the
things that I find of some interest, skipping back
to your time on campus, You obviously weren't
particularly excited about the military, but yet
you got into the Ross Volunteers. Oh, yeah, yeah.
Ross Volunteers was an honorary company, and it
was a precision drill deal. We enjoyed it, you bet.
Well, that was pretty much an honor, I take it, to be
elected. That's right, you bet. It was really an
honor military company is what it was. That's what
I would consider it, yes.
You were also on a couple of stock judging teams.
Yeah, I was a member of the junior and senior stock
judging team. How were you selected to be on the
team? Well, for the proficiency and grades,
evidently.
This was not a separate organization in a sense.
You were an animal husbandry and judging animals
was part of your curriculum.
We made a lot of trips in our junior year, Fort
Worth, Oklahoma City, around. We were supposed to
go to Chicago our senior year, but had foot and
mouth disease, so we didn't get to make trips. I
believe the same thing happened to Mr. Stangle. He
didn't get to go to Chicago because of the same.
Yeah, I think that's probably right. But he
coached a team that won up there, I think. Yeah, I
believe he would have been on the junior team when
you were a senior. Yeah, that's right. You missed
out on that.
Now, you said after you graduated, you went into
the livestock business. Yeah, the cattle
business in West Texas. It hasn't been time to get
caught in a bad drought of 1917 and 1918. I got a very
liberal education in the cattle business. A very
costly one. Very costly one.
What finally developed with that? Well, of
course, I got heavily involved financially and
shipped cattle into New Mexico and into the
Panhandle. Finally had to sell out. It took a long
time to pay out.
I believe you had something called the Burns
Livestock Company. Yeah, that's right. And what,
M-I-C-H-E-S, how you pronounce it? Yeah, it was
down in Dawson, Borden County. We later sold that
ranch. There were several of us interested in a
family interest. We sold that ranch in 1929. I went
to work for Texas National Cotton Seed Products
Association, A.L. Ward, in the educational
service. He was an A&M man, too, wasn't he? Yeah,
1910 man. Mm-hmm. As a field man for them, and I
traveled everything from Pennsylvania, Pacific
Coast, Rio Grande River to Canada about six, seven
years. And a real good education. And I contacted
all the livestock people, the cattle people, the
feedlot people, the sheep people, the
experimental station people. I had made a very
wide acquaintance during those years. This was
what, in trying to develop a market for cottonseed
products? A market for cottonseed products,
that's right. That was a promotion deal and then
sponsored by the Texas Cottonseed Crushers
Association and the National Cottonseed
Products Association. And purely a promotional
deal, educational deal, educate the public how to
use cottonseed products to the best advantage.
And also to follow the experimental work that was
going on at all the colleges and universities.
Experiment station. And of course promoting the
sale of cottonseed products to the large feeders,
little ones and large ones too. Of course, the
feedlot business was not like it is today with
these big feedlots to the southwest. Primarily,
all your beef cattle were fed in the corn belt. You
shipped them up there and then shipped the meat
back. Whereas today, you've got an entirely
different setup.
What would you describe as the setup today? I mean,
there's still some cattle shipped to the corn
belt. Oh, yes, they feed some cattle up there, but
they've largely gone into a production deal up
there, and a lot of farmers don't feed any cattle
anymore. They sell the corn.
There are a lot of cattle fed in Ohio and Indiana and
Ohio and Nebraska and Pennsylvania, but the big
feedlots, the big volume of fed cattle today is in
the southwest, the Great Plains area, the
panhandle in eastern New Mexico, western
Oklahoma, southwestern Kansas, eastern
Colorado. primary feed then? Grain sorghum
production is largely responsible for it and the
fact that they saved the freight on a lot of these
cattle going to Corn Belt. A close source of grain
and a close source of protein, your cotton seed
products. Cotton seed products with protein.
Probably has been overdone. I'm afraid it has
been. It looks like a lot of these boys are in
trouble, bad trouble. Producing too much beef,
you mean? No, too many feedlots. Competition got
pretty keen for feeder cattle. Bought some of them
too high, and then they had the freeze on beef last
year, which was so uncalled for. Let it alone
worked itself out. Then you had your boycotts, and
then you had your truck and strike. Everything
that worked against orderly marketing. Well, the
freeze on the price of the beef and the failure to
freeze the cost of the feed was really the
disastrous part of it. That's right. And then, of
course, since that time, well, cattle prices of
beef have gone way down. People held a lot of cattle
that shouldn't have been held. It should have
continued to market because you get over finished
cattle on the market and they've been a drug on the
market ever since. Just now begin to get out from
under them. The tremendous amount of grain that
was exported ran the grain feed price way up.
There's no doubt about that.
I'm pretty optimistic about the fat cattle price,
but I'm not very optimistic about the cattle
business generally for the next few years. But you
think this is going to be a cycle that it'll level
out ultimately? It always has. Yeah? Yeah. So
there's every reason to believe that it will
again. It's not new, you know. No, no. I've seen
several of these wrecks. Yeah. Well, I know
that... My grandfather in Lee County was involved
in the cattle business for a long time, and since
his death, my grandmother and my father have been
involved, and the price has gone up and down and up
and down. Those people who, when the price goes up
and they buy a few cattle and are going to make a
killing, and then the price drops and they have to
sell less than they bought, they lose their shirt.
That's right. I've seen all of it happen. Stay in
it. Why? lose sometimes and win sometimes, but
overall I guess they do fairly well. You were with
the Pitchfork Land and Cattle Company for a good
long while.
Were you involved in part ownership of that? Well,
I was a stockholder in it.
Later made a direct of the company.
I stayed with the Cotton Seed Products
Association until about 1934 or 1935.
For a short time I was associated with Trader's Oil
Mill at Fort Worth.
Later with Anderson Clayton as acting sales
manager for 11 oil mills that they owned in West
Texas. Western Cotton, they called it West Texas
Cotton Oil Company at that time, Abilene. So they
moved me to Abilene, made me acting sales manager
down there. And I stayed there several years. uh,
moved me to San Angelo about 1940. The West Texas
Cotton Oil Company was a subsidiary of Anderson
Clayton. That's right. Uh, during the years I was
at Abilene, I was principally in sales
organization. I was sales manager, handle the
sales for the group of mills that Anderson Clayton
owned. Uh, In 1942, I went to Pitchfork Land and
Cattle Company at Guthrie with own rights of
approximately 120,000 acres in King and Dickens
County, 85 miles east of Lubbock. As manager there
and stayed with those people 23 years. I'm still
associated with them, still on their board of
directors. In 1947, we bought 43,000 acres of
country for the first part of the Matador Land
Cattle Company that was cut up, which had joined
us. In 1952, we bought 50 sections of country in
Wyoming and Laramie and Albany County, Laramie,
Wyoming, which we still operate. And I retired at
the age of 70 in 1965. Although, as I said, I do
remain on the board and still act in an advisory
capacity and handle their real estate and some oil
leases and stuff for the company. So the company
owns land and operates them as ranches, but also
has oil leases? No, no. They've leased a lot of it,
but they don't have any oil. Uh-huh. Have they
leased other people's lands? No, no. I have leased
out two different oil companies who've drilled
wells over there, see. I've handled those leases.
But they haven't hit any oil yet? No, just haven't
been lucky enough, that's all. But when you were
manager, Did you have control over both the Texas
and the— Yes, I was general manager, executive
manager of the company. So you had both— Control,
all of it was cleared through me. So you had both the
Texas and the Wyoming property. Yes. And that was
quite a chunk of land. Well, we had between 100 and
90 and 200,000 acres of country. And how many head
of cattle did you have? Well, it varied, of course.
weather condition, market conditions, but from 8
to 10,000 cattle most years. Did you run both range
cattle and a feedlot operation? No, no, we did not.
We fed some cattle during that time, but largely a
production proposition, range cattle
production, and maintained a registered herd of
cattle for replacement bulls. So you would just
keep the calves up until the time they would be
ready to go to a feedlot? Well, the reason we bought
the Wyoming ranch is that we had been selling light
yearlings in the spring and We figured it would be
more profitable to carry these light cattle and
get a cheap summer gain on them and sell them in the
fall. That's the reason we bought the Wyoming
rights. And we still maintain it. And we still send
some cattle up there. It's been years. It has been
more advantageous to us to sell these cattle. or
maybe precondition them and put them in the
feedlot down here rather than to go to Wyoming with
them. In those years, we bought outside cattle and
light yearlings in the fall, wintered them, and
summered them and made two-year-old cattle out of
them. Really a thing that we're still doing. So
your operation is influenced a good bit by the
market conditions, the weather conditions?
Range conditions, and it's flexible. That's
right. As it would have to be if you wanted to stay in
business. Yeah, that's right. That's right.
Yeah. Mr. Barnes and I lived over at the ranch 23
years. Where are you living now? I live out here on
19th Street. And we bought a home here in 1963. And
the day they shot Kennedy. And we remodeled it and
redecorated it and air conditioned it. Moved up
here in 65 when we left the ranch. So you haven't
lived on the ranch then for about nine years. But
you still keep a pretty close tie to it. Yeah, down
there pretty often. Except for the young man who
succeeded me as manager. He came to me in 1948 and
he's still there.
Okay.
Okay. I made a reference a few minutes ago to an old
fellow who was with the military department of A&M
College for many years named Sergeant Kenny.
Sergeant Kenny was a big, fat fellow, and
everybody loved him. Sort of gruff, but a fine
character. During my junior year in the spring, we
used to have a few keg rolling. That was before
brown went dry. So we had a few keg rollers and get
some negro boy to bring us a keg of beer. I can
remember one April,
a whole bunch of us got a keg of beer brought out to
the old Experiment Station up on the hill between
Brown and College.
And we were having a beer party, and there were
several on the campus in the surrounding area. But
anyhow, Dr. Brazell and a commandant, Lieutenant
Hill, came down the road and saw us. And of course
the car came and the boys ran off in a cotton patch on
one side of the road, some of them on the other side.
So they went up to where they could turn around and
came back. They went back to the campus and
instigated a midnight inspection and caught a lot
of boys absent. Some of them had gone to the
latrine, some of them were sleeping on the roof, so
they'd say it. And some of them were just gone.
Well, there's a big hullabaloo, and they sent out a
request that you were absent. So and so, midnight
inspection, please report to the Commandant's
Office explanation. Well, wherefore so? Well,
you're absent. Well, some of us had permits to be in
bronze, some of them, as I said, sleeping on the
roof, and some of them going to the train one time.
But one young fellow, who Sergeant Kenny had up
before him, and he lived in San Angelo, and I
believe he was a freshman. And with us were several
juniors, I think it was my junior year. And I think
both, one or two juniors, I believe both of them are
gone now. One was a very dear friend of mine. He and I
went through a lot of things up and down this day in M
College. This young man from St. Angelo, and I
think he's still living. Sergeant Kennedy asked
him, says, where were you last night at 12 o'clock
midnight? It may have been midnight. It may have
been 11, I don't know. He says, I was eating
strawberries. He says, eating strawberries at
that time? Yes. I said, get them while the dew's on
them. It's all good. Old Sergeant Kenny says,
young man, that's the biggest lie I've ever heard.
All my years, that's the biggest lie I've ever
heard.
You can go. Let me ask you a question about
something that's just occurred to me. There was a
period of years, and I believe this may have been
while you were there, that In the spring of the
year, the cadets kind of went on an extended hike
onto the Brazos River. Oh, yes, yes, I made several
of those, you bet. You walk down, walk back, and
carry that gun with you. And a bedroll, too, huh?
That's right. How long did you stay there when you
went?
I reckon I stayed all night. I don't know. I've
forgotten. I remember walking down there,
camping down there. What did you do when you got
there? Oh, they had target practice down there,
platoon practice, and extended order drill, some
stuff like that. Someone once said that it was to
keep you out of mischief on April Fool's Day. Oh,
yeah, yeah, that's right. That's the reason it was
originated, I understand. It's a pretty good long
hike down there. Yeah, I got, well, if you follow
the road to the, To the Jones River Bridge, it's
nine miles. That's right. It was nine miles then,
too. That's right. I still have some old pictures
that were taken on that hike. That's right. We have
a few pictures in the archives of some of those
hikes, and we have one big long one. It must be about
three and a half feet long. It's kind of a panoramic
view of the encampment. I believe that was in 1910
or 11, something like that. Yeah, yeah. Well,
these pictures taken, I forgot what year, what
spring, but I still have some of them. There's very
few of my classmates still living. Most of them are
gone. Yeah, I can imagine, too. I have one very dear
friend who lives in Greenville, South Carolina,
that I hear from very often. Most of my other close
companions are gone. I have one very dear friend
who lives in Dallas. I believe he told me the other
day when I called him as I came through Dallas from
St. Louis that he was 80, I believe he told me 81, 82.
He says I walk a mile every day. He's in pretty good
health. Yeah, must be to do that.